# Microsoft AT-Scheduler Service (ATSVC)

This is a [DCE/RPC](/DCE/RPC) based protocol used by [CIFS](/CIFS) hosts to access/control the AT-Scheduler Service across a network. This dissector is described by an IDL file and is automatically generated by the [Pidl](/Pidl) compiler.

## History

This protocol first appeared in Windows NT4 and is used to access the scheduler service across a network.

## Protocol dependencies

  - [DCE/RPC](/DCE/RPC): This protocol is implemented ontop of the [DCE/RPC](/DCE/RPC) transport. This protocol is often access from the \\PIPE\\atsvc named pipe on IPC$ but can also be reached through a dynamically assigned [TCP](/TCP) port. Accessing this service using [TCP](/TCP) as transport requires the support of the [EPM](/EPM) Endpoint Mapper service.

## Example traffic

XXX - Add example traffic here (as plain text or Wireshark screenshot).

## Wireshark

The ATSVC dissector is fully functional.

## Preference Settings

There are no preference setting specific to the ATSVC protocol.

## Example capture file

XXX - Add a simple example capture file to the [SampleCaptures](/SampleCaptures) page and link from here (see below). Keep this file short, it's also a good idea to gzip it to make it even smaller, as Wireshark can open gzipped files automatically.

  - [SampleCaptures/PROTO.pcap](uploads/__moin_import__/attachments/SampleCaptures/PROTO.pcap)

## Display Filter

A complete list of ATSVC display filter fields can be found in the [display filter reference](http://www.wireshark.org/docs/dfref/a/atsvc.html)

Show only the ATSVC based traffic:

``` 
 atsvc 
```

## Capture Filter

You cannot directly filter ATSVC protocols while capturing.

## Protocol Functions

The ATSVC protocol implements the following functions:

  - [atsvc\_JobAdd](/atsvc_JobAdd)

  - [atsvc\_JobDel](/atsvc_JobDel)

  - [atsvc\_JobEnum](/atsvc_JobEnum)

  - [atsvc\_JobGetInfo](/atsvc_JobGetInfo)

## External links

  - <http://websvn.samba.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/branches/SAMBA_4_0/source/librpc/idl/atsvc.idl> IDL definition for the ATSVC interface.

## Discussion

---

Imported from https://wiki.wireshark.org/ATSVC on 2020-08-11 23:11:26 UTC
