# Microsoft INITSHUTDOWN interface

This is a [DCE/RPC](/DCE/RPC) based protocol used by [CIFS](/CIFS) hosts to remotely shutdown or restart other [CIFS](/CIFS) hosts. This dissector is described by an IDL file and is automatically generated by the [Pidl](/Pidl) compiler.

## History

This protocol first appeared with the release of Active Directory (Windows 2000).

## Protocol dependencies

  - [DCE/RPC](/DCE/RPC): This protocol is implemented ontop of the [DCE/RPC](/DCE/RPC) transport. This protocol is often access from the \\PIPE\\[InitShutdown](/InitShutdown) named pipe on IPC$ but in some cases, it can also be reached through a dynamically assigned [TCP](/TCP) port.

## Example traffic

XXX - Add example traffic here (as plain text or Wireshark screenshot).

## Wireshark

The INITSHUTDOWN dissector is fully functional.

## Preference Settings

There are no preference settings specific to the INITSHUTDOWN protocol.

## Example capture file

Someone should donate a capture for this protocol

## Display Filter

A complete list of INITSHUTDOWN display filter fields can be found in the [display filter reference](http://www.wireshark.org/docs/dfref/i/initshutdown.html)

Show only the INITSHUTDOWN based traffic:

``` 
 initshutdown 
```

## Capture Filter

You cannot directly filter INITSHUTDOWN protocols while capturing.

## Protocol Functions

The INITSHUTDOWN interface supports the following operations:

  - [initshutdown\_Init](/initshutdown_Init)

  - [initshutdown\_Abort](/initshutdown_Abort)

  - [initshutdown\_InitEx](/initshutdown_InitEx)

## External links

  - <http://websvn.samba.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/branches/SAMBA_4_0/source/librpc/idl/initshutdown.idl> IDL definition for the INITSHUTDOWN interface.

## Discussion

---

Imported from https://wiki.wireshark.org/INITSHUTDOWN on 2020-08-11 23:15:06 UTC
